evening everyone and welcome to
information literacy news we're covering
some interesting topics tonight
including newly developed information
from our expert Lucy langsdale Lucy our
viewers have expressed interest on how
to properly analyze websites what can
you tell them well marek analyzing a
website isn't too difficult if you know
the correct steps first there are
certain things of religion mcwebb site
is to have authority accuracy
objectivity currency and coverage how do
you check the authority for authority
you should ask these questions about the
website who is the author and what are
their credentials is there a sponsoring
agency if so are they reputable so if
the author is a writer from Us Weekly
the credibility of the site goes down
right exactly the second part of the
checklist is accuracy when it comes to
accuracy you should look for citations
proper mechanics and whether the facts
have been checked that makes sense if
the website says the sky is red well we
all know that's not true the site isn't
verifiable precisely marek objectivity
is the third point on the checklist does
the author have an obvious bias towards
the subject some writers are known for
their viewpoint on the topic make sure
you are aware of these partial tease
before you start taking information from
the site but what about currency how
relevant is the information if it's a
bit old the world is always changing it
is best to use the most updated in
recent information available to you so
that you don't miss any significant
differences in the information you've
received and what is actually true
there's only one more part to the
checklist what was the last point again
well Marek the last point is coverage
how detailed is the information provided
on the website does it just give you the
basic who what where when why or does it
go deeper adding quotes and references
that's a lot of information
Lucy but it's not too hard do you have
any other advice for our viewers with
the checklist you should be good to go
with analyzing websites Thank You Lucy
and thanks to all of our viewers this is
it is 110 news good night